
version 0.5.1 10-25-95:
C++ version finally aligns sequences now, after many months of converion

version 0.5.2 10-27-95:
added LIST, GPEN, EPEN commands
added proper default values of gap and extension penalties
created and fixed extension penalty sign bug
added new_gaps member to Score_matrix

version 0.5.3
added "print ID" command
improved feedback of "COPY" command
added improved numbering of sequences in pretty output
added "WEIGHT" command

version 0.5.4
added "RANDOMIZE" command.  Still needs "delta" statistics.
repaired core dump when using "ALIGN" before sequences are entered

version 0.6.0
reads in PDB structure files and makes a sequence alignment based
upon 2 3D structures.

version 0.6.1
successfully compiles with many routines needed for spatial structure overlay
12-27-95

version 0.6.2
implemented matrix operations in preparation for Kabsch overlay procedure
Householder reflections seem to be OK, but Givens reflections do not return
the correct orthogonal matrix

version 0.6.3
port to MS-DOS/DJGPP - filenames shortened, GNU String use amputated
overhaul of Mystring class and then parsing routines
Turbo C++ complains about "text segments greater than 64K"

version 0.6.4
after success with MSDOS/DJGPP, minor fixes to run under sun4 again
insert stars by identities in pretty output
untranslated default BLOSUM matrix
 
version 0.6.5
minor changes to compile on LINUX and MSDOS again
now compiles with TURBO C++, but executable causes system hang

version 0.6.6
repaired Mystring::after(int,int) command, so @filename hopefully works
changed message after "WEIGHT" to be clearer
added lines to prevent coredump on ALIGN with no sequences loaded
added SEED command
avoided core dump in RANDOM command with no sequences
made progress of randomization report on round numbers
added "!" command for shell escaped commands
avoided division by zero in Alignment::identity(int) with only one sequence

version 0.6.7
added optimize command
automatic offset of table to make expectation value of alignment = 0
 
version 0.7.0
overlay now really works

version 0.7.1
write STRUCT[12] now works
possibly repaired problem with OPTIMIZE
implemented "#123" option at start of sequence info
highroad vs. lowroad vs. random partially implemented
suboptimal option added to allow suboptimal paths
unsuccessfully tried to implement new data structure for dynamic programming.
version currently in shambles

version 0.7.2
commented out new dynprog stuff, restabilized executable

version 0.7.3
ported to hppa, recompiled sun,sgi versions

version 0.7.4
separate superpose, equivalence, salign parts of overlay
add RUNLENGTH variable for equivalence
expanded "LIST" output
made "PRINT STRUCT1" same as "WRITE STRUCT1"

version 0.7.5
minor fixes to run on SUN
stabulate matrix values changed to better(?) system
allow longer lines in PDB file without choking

version 0.7.6
identities are now starred when some sequences have gaps
comparison matrices may now be read in properly(again)

version 0.7.7
changed suboptimal_factor to scale with sigma of scores, rather
than path_score, to address problem with poor C-termini.
Added SPLIT command, and modified OPTIMIZE command accordingly.
Began work on TREE calculations.

version 0.8.0
created primitive Motif X-window interface to CKWHENCE

version 0.8.1
minor polishing of the interface
file->open now fills SEQ1
compiles on LINUX and IRIX, but not SUN

version 0.8.2
added stable windows for sequence editing, structure
viewing, and matrix viewing.  They don't work yet, but
the window structure is at least there.

version 0.8.3
built up structure viewer somewhat
polished primitive sequence and matrix viewer windows
changed sequence class to contain a number for each residue
changed pdb representation to hold multiple structures
minimal correction of compile and link errors after above

version 0.8.4
	modify to compile on SGI and SUN (w/ gcc 2.8.0 also)
	added double buffering to structure viewer
	tidied up parse.cxx, so (read struct1, read struct2, overlay)
	should work 
	remove some division by zero possibilities in sequence window to avoid 
	core dump on sun.
	structure viewer on SGI is now bizarrely distorted

version 0.8.5:
	added View->Center menu to structure viewer
	added and incorporated refatom() member of SeqRes
	multiple structures now work
	structure viewer now shows struct1 and overlay for overlay
	pdbprotein now contains an explicit sequence
	individual residue numbering is now incorporated

version 0.8.6
	picking added to structure window
	incorporated and debugged(?) orientation information for each residue
	fixed bug to make CA the reference atom if it exists

version 0.8.7
	added option (USEANGLE) to permit orientation information in alignment, but it is SLOW.  But it works.  Still need to make this information be used in assignment of equivalences.

version 0.8.8 
	single structure output no longer has MODEL card

version 0.9.0
	renamed CKWHENCE/XWHENCE to SEQUOIA/XSEQUOIA
	updated makefiles to work on SGI/SUN
	completely rewrote parser to include help features
	output transformation matrix during overlay
version 0.9.1
	made geometric scoring functions the elegant ones from the paper
		(it works with FNR/PDR!)
	made much simpler calculation of kappa angle to speed geometry calculation
version 0.9.2
	made timelicense feature to expire program on Dec. 1, 1999, due to upcoming Asilomar meeting
	made useangle on by default
	fixed coredump on PRINT STRUCT1 command
	added more information upon reading in structures and sequences
version 0.9.3
        incorporated gnu readline function for command line editing, history etc.
	changed Kabsch algorithm after Kabsch(1978) to avoid rotation matrices with negative determinants when a D- amino acid occurs.	
version 0.9.3b
	fixed bug in Sequence class which overwrote titles in copy.
version 0.9.4
	begun modification of EQUIVALENCE command (now requires -O1 optimization only?)
	fixed off-by-one error in partial sequence numbering in pretty output
	added error message when READ file returns error
version 0.9.5
	prevented core dump for stream input without a "QUIT" command
	restored default use of original EQUIVALENCE command
	resurrected ports to MSDOS and SUN5
version 0.9.6
	removed text buffering in response to Chris Putnam's bug report
	make sure gap penalty is updated before each alignment
